---
layout: page
title: Artist Residency
permalink: /residency/
---

## The Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist's Residency 2023

[En français](#la-résidence-dartiste-virtuelle-numérique-des-caraïbes-2023) \| [En español](#la-residencia-de-artistas-virtuales-digitales-del-caribe-2023)

**Call for applications**

**Deadline: April 15, 2023**

The Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist's Residency program supports
Caribbean artists working in digital media. The residency is offered in
conjunction with the annual Caribbean Digital (TCD) conference, an
international event hosted annually at locations in the United States
and the Caribbean since 2014, in partnership with [Alice
Yard](http://aliceyard.blogspot.com/), a contemporary art
collective based at Granderson Lab in Belmont, Port of Spain, Trinidad
and Tobago. This program is sponsored by the Mellon Foundation.

[Beginning in
2022](https://cdscollective.org/marinna-shareef/) and for a
period of four years, TCD and Alice Yard are partnering to create an
annual virtual residency program for artists of the Caribbean and its
diasporas who work in digital media. The residency aims to facilitate
the development of new artworks in digital media that investigate ideas
and practices in Caribbean Digital Humanities and engage with scholars
in the TCD network and community.

The residency consists of the following:

-   a cash stipend of US\$5,000 to support six months of part-time
    > research and creative work, to begin in June 2023;

-   curatorial mentorship by artist and Alice Yard co-director
    > Christopher Cozier;

-   two virtual studio visits by professional curators or critics;

-   the commissioning and online publication of a critical text by a
    > professional art writer to document the artist's work and process;

-   arranged travel and accommodation to present the resulting work at
    > TCD's annual conference in December 2023.

During the virtual residency, the artist will remain based at their
usual location, interacting with the administrators, mentor, and TCD
community members via traditional online media and tools, with the
understanding that the artist will maintain regular contact through
scheduled meetings and check-ins.

This residency seeks to support the development of "born-digital"
creative work primarily based on digital media and tools rather than
analog work that is digitized merely for presentation or storage.
Artists may work in media, including and not limited to images, sound,
and text. Also integral to the residency is the artist's engagement with
Caribbean Digital Humanities, a multidisciplinary field of study that
brings digital technologies into the research, analysis, visualization,
and application of the traditional humanities. During the residency, the
artist is expected to engage in dialogue with Caribbean Digital
Humanities scholars to enrich their creative and research practices.

**Eligibility and application guidelines**

The Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist's Residency is open to **artists
from the Caribbean and its diasporas**, with a preference for applicants
living and working in the Caribbean region. Applicants must be **over
the age of 18** on April 15, 2023.

**To apply, [complete the online
form](https://forms.gle/PZMTJ6Pm3pAMZ7Zc9) and upload an
application package (PDF) containing the following:**

1.  a description of the work the artist proposes to develop during the
    > residency. This may be a new project or an extension of existing
    > work in progress (max. 400 words);

2.  a short statement explaining how the artist's proposed work would
    > benefit from dialogue and engagement with TCD's Digital Humanities
    > network (max. 200 words);

3.  a short description of the digital tools --- whether software or
    > hardware --- and methods the artist expects to use in the
    > development of their work (max. 200 words);

4.  a CV, including a short biographical statement; a list of
    > exhibitions, publications, or other forms of presentation of
    > recent work; and the artist's website and relevant public social
    > media accounts, if applicable (max. two pages);

5.  a portfolio presenting a sample of the artist's recent work: images
    > or text, or links to equivalent samples of the artist's work
    > online (including up to 10 still images with descriptive captions
    > or up to 5 short videos or sound work). **Looking for inspiration?
    > Check out the work of our inaugural artist-in-residence, [Marinna
    > Shareef](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=grnqMlgcYHk).**

NB: the artist's application package **must be saved as a PDF**, and the
five elements listed above **must be contained in a single file**.
Please do not attach multiple files or use other file formats.

**The application deadline is April 15, 2023 at 11:59 pm (EST). Late
applications will not be considered.**

Applicants should meet the eligibility requirements to apply for a
Nonimmigrant B-1 visa. If needed, the selected artist should apply for a
B-1 visa by following the steps listed on
[travel.state.gov](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/tourism-visit/visitor.html#:~:text=Visitor%20visas%20are%20nonimmigrant%20visas,1%2FB%2D2).)
by June 1, 2023 and will receive up to \$250 as reimbursement towards
their B-1 visa application along with an invitation letter in support of their visa application.

A jury, including members of the Alice Yard collective and TCD, will
assess applications. The successful artist will be announced by the end
of April 2023, and the residency will run from June 15 to December 15,
2023. The recipient will present the work done during the residency at
TCD's annual conference in December 2023. The artist will retain the
ownership and copyright of their work, but they must grant TCD
non-exclusive rights to present and archive the work on their website
and in other media.

For any queries about eligibility requirements or the application
process, please contact the residency administrators at
[thecaribbeandigital@gmail.com](mailto:thecaribbeandigital@gmail.com).

<p class="aligncenter"><a href="https://forms.gle/PZMTJ6Pm3pAMZ7Zc9" target="_blank"><button>Application form</button></a></p>


## La résidence d\'artiste virtuelle numérique des Caraïbes 2023

**Appel à candidatures**

**Date limite : 15 avril 2023**

Le programme de la résidence d'artiste virtuelle numérique des Caraïbes
2023 soutient les artistes caribéens travaillant dans les médias
numériques. La résidence est offerte en conjonction avec la conférence
annuelle Caribbean Digital (TCD), un événement international organisé
chaque année aux États-Unis et dans les Caraïbes depuis 2014, en
partenariat avec [Alice
Yard](http://aliceyard.blogspot.com/), un collectif d'art
contemporain basé au Granderson Lab à Belmont, Port of Spain,
Trinidad-and-Tobago. Ce programme est parrainé par la Fondation Mellon.

[À partir de
2022](https://cdscollective.org/marinna-shareef/) et pour
une période de quatre ans, TCD et Alice Yard s'associent pour créer un
programme annuel de résidence virtuelle pour artistes de la Caraïbe et
de ses diasporas qui travaillent dans les médias numériques. La
résidence vise à faciliter le développement de nouvelles œuvres d'art
dans les médias numériques qui étudient les idées et les pratiques dans
les humanités numériques des Caraïbes et s'engagent avec des
universitaires du réseau et de la communauté TCD.

La résidence se compose des éléments suivants :

-   une allocation en espèces de 5 000 USD pour soutenir six mois de
    > recherche et de travail créatif à temps partiel, à commencer en
    > juin 2023 ;

-   mentorat curatorial par l'artiste et codirecteur d'Alice Yard
    > Christopher Cozier;

-   deux visites virtuelles en studio par des conservateurs ou des
    > critiques professionnels ;

-   la commande et la publication en ligne d'un texte critique par un
    > écrivain d'art professionnel pour documenter le travail et le
    > processus de l'artiste;

-   organisé le voyage et l'hébergement pour présenter les travaux
    > résultants lors de la conférence annuelle de TCD en décembre 2023.

Pendant la résidence virtuelle, l'artiste restera basé à son emplacement
habituel, interagissant avec les administrateurs, le mentor et les
membres de la communauté TCD via des médias et des outils en ligne
traditionnels, étant entendu que l'artiste maintiendra un contact
régulier par le biais de réunions et d'enregistrements programmés.

Cette résidence vise à soutenir le développement d'un travail créatif «
né numérique » principalement basé sur des médias et des outils
numériques plutôt que sur un travail analogique qui est numérisé
simplement pour la présentation ou le stockage. Les artistes peuvent
travailler dans les médias, y compris, mais sans s'y limiter, les
images, le son et le texte. L'engagement de l'artiste avec Caribbean
Digital Humanities, un domaine d'étude multidisciplinaire qui intègre
les technologies numériques dans la recherche, l'analyse, la
visualisation et l'application des humanités traditionnelles, fait
également partie intégrante de la résidence. Au cours de la résidence,
l'artiste devrait engager un dialogue avec des spécialistes des
humanités numériques des Caraïbes pour enrichir leurs pratiques de
création et de recherche.

**Directives d'admissibilité et de demande**

La résidence d'artiste virtuelle numérique des Caraïbes est ouverte aux
**artistes des Caraïbes et de ses diasporas**, avec une préférence pour
les candidats vivant et travaillant dans la région des Caraïbes. Les
candidats doivent être **âgés de plus de 18 ans** au 15 avril 2023.

**Pour postuler, remplissez [le formulaire en
ligne](https://forms.gle/PZMTJ6Pm3pAMZ7Zc9) et téléchargez
un dossier de candidature (PDF) contenant les éléments suivants :**

1.  une description du travail que l'artiste se propose de développer
    > durant la résidence. Il peut s'agir d'un nouveau projet ou d\'une
    > extension d'un travail existant en cours (max. 400 mots) ;

2.  une courte déclaration expliquant comment le travail proposé par
    > l'artiste bénéficierait d'un dialogue et d'un engagement avec le
    > réseau Digital Humanities de TCD (max. 200 mots);

3.  une brève description des outils numériques -- qu\'ils soient
    > logiciels ou matériels -- et des méthodes que l'artiste compte
    > utiliser dans le développement de son travail (max. 200 mots);

4.  un CV, comprenant une courte notice biographique ; une liste
    > d'expositions, de publications ou d'autres formes de présentation
    > d'œuvres récentes ; et le site Web de l'artiste et les comptes de
    > médias sociaux publics pertinents, le cas échéant (max. deux
    > pages);

5.  un portfolio présentant un échantillon du travail récent de
    > l'artiste : images ou texte, ou liens vers des échantillons
    > équivalents du travail de l'artiste en ligne (comprenant jusqu\'à
    > 10 images fixes avec légendes descriptives ou jusqu\'à 5 courtes
    > vidéos ou œuvres sonores). **Vous cherchez de l\'inspiration?
    > Découvrez le travail de notre première artiste en résidence
    > [Marinna
    > Shareef](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=grnqMlgcYHk).**

NB : le dossier de candidature de l\'artiste **doit être enregistré au
format PDF**, et les cinq éléments énumérés ci-dessus **doivent être
contenus dans un seul fichier**. Veuillez ne pas joindre plusieurs
fichiers ou utiliser d'autres formats de fichiers.

**La date limite de candidature est le 15 avril 2023 à 23h59 (HNE). Les
candidatures tardives ne seront pas prises en compte.**

Les candidats doivent satisfaire aux critères d'éligibilité pour
demander un visa non-immigrant B-1. Si nécessaire, l'artiste sélectionné
doit demander un visa B-1 en suivant les étapes indiquées sur
[travel.state.gov](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/tourism-visit/visitor.html#:~:text=Visitor%20visas%20are%20nonimmigrant%20visas,1%2FB%2D2).)
avant le 1er juin 2023 et recevra jusqu'à 250 \$ à titre de
remboursement pour sa demande de visa B-1 accompagnée d'une lettre d'invitation à l'appui de leur demande de visa.

Un jury, composé de membres du collectif Alice Yard et de TCD, évaluera
les candidatures. L'artiste retenu sera annoncé d'ici la fin avril 2023
et la résidence se déroulera du 15 juin au 15 décembre 2023. Le
récipiendaire présentera le travail réalisé pendant la résidence lors de
la conférence annuelle de TCD en décembre 2023. L'artiste conservera la
propriété et le droit d'auteur de leur travail, mais ils doivent
accorder à TCD des droits non exclusifs pour présenter et archiver le
travail sur leur site Web et dans d'autres médias.

Pour toute question concernant les critères d'éligibilité ou le
processus de candidature, veuillez contacter les administrateurs de la
résidence à
[thecaribbeandigital@gmail.com](mailto:thecaribbeandigital@gmail.com).

<p class="aligncenter"><a href="https://forms.gle/PZMTJ6Pm3pAMZ7Zc9" target="_blank"><button>Formulaire de candidature</button></a></p>

## La Residencia de Artistas Virtuales Digitales del Caribe 2023

**Convocatoria de solicitudes**

**Fecha límite: 15 de abril de 2023**

La Residencia de Artistas Virtuales del Caribe Digital apoya a los
artistas caribeños que trabajan en medios digitales. La residencia se
ofrece junto con la conferencia The Caribbean Digital (TCD), un evento
internacional organizado anualmente en lugares de los Estados Unidos y
el Caribe desde 2014. El programa está organizado en asociación con
[Alice Yard](http://aliceyard.blogspot.com/), un colectivo
de arte contemporáneo con sede en Granderson Lab en Belmont, Puerto de
España, Trinidad y Tobago. El programa está patrocinado por la Fundación
Mellon.

[A partir del
2022,](https://cdscollective.org/es/marinna-shareef/) y por
un período de cuatro años, TCD y Alice Yard se asociaron para crear un
programa de residencia virtual para artistas del Caribe y sus diásporas
que trabajan en medios digitales. La residencia tiene como objetivo
facilitar el desarrollo de nuevas obras de arte en medios digitales que
investiguen ideas y prácticas en las Humanidades Digitales del Caribe e
interactúen con académicos en la red y la comunidad del TCD.

La residencia consta de lo siguiente:

-   un estipendio en efectivo de USD \$5.000 para apoyar seis meses de
    > trabajo creativo y de investigación a tiempo parcial, a partir de
    > junio de 2023;

-   tutoría curatorial del artista y codirector de Alice Yard,
    > Christopher Cozier;

-   dos visitas virtuales al estudio del residente por curadores o
    > críticos profesionales;

-   el encargo y publicación en línea de un texto crítico por parte de
    > un escritor de arte profesional para documentar el trabajo y el
    > proceso del artista;

-   cobertura de viajes y alojamiento para presentar el trabajo
    > resultante en la conferencia TCD en diciembre de 2023.

Durante la residencia virtual, el artista permanecerá en su ubicación
habitual, interactuando con los administradores, el mentor y los
miembros de la comunidad de TCD a través de medios y herramientas en
línea tradicionales, en el entendimiento de que el artista mantendrá
contacto regular a través de reuniones programadas y reportes sobre su
progreso.

Esta residencia busca apoyar el desarrollo del trabajo creativo \"nacido
digitalmente;\" es decir, basado principalmente en medios y herramientas
digitales en lugar del trabajo analógico que se digitaliza simplemente
para su presentación o almacenamiento. Los artistas pueden trabajar en
distintos medios para producir imágenes, sonido y texto. También es
parte integral de la residencia el compromiso del artista con las
Humanidades Digitales del Caribe, un campo de estudio multidisciplinario
que incorpora las tecnologías digitales a la investigación, el análisis,
la visualización y la aplicación de las humanidades tradicionales.
Durante la residencia, se espera que el artista entable un diálogo con
académicos de Humanidades Digitales del Caribe para enriquecer sus
prácticas creativas y de investigación.

**Pautas de elegibilidad y solicitud**

La Residencia de Artistas Virtuales del Caribe Digital está abierta a
artistas del Caribe y sus diásporas, con preferencia para los
solicitantes que viven y trabajan en la región del Caribe. Los
solicitantes deben ser mayores de 18 años el 15 de abril de 2023.

**Para presentar una solicitud, [complete el formulario en
línea](https://forms.gle/PZMTJ6Pm3pAMZ7Zc9) y cargue un
paquete de solicitud (PDF) que contenga lo siguiente:**

1.  una descripción del trabajo que el artista se propone desarrollar
    > durante la residencia. Este puede ser un proyecto nuevo o una
    > extensión de un trabajo existente o en curso (máx. 400 palabras);

2.  una breve explicación de cómo el trabajo propuesto por el artista se
    > beneficiaría del diálogo y el compromiso con la red de Humanidades
    > Digitales del TCD (máx. 200 palabras);

3.  una breve descripción de las herramientas digitales, ya sea software
    > o hardware, y los métodos que el artista espera utilizar en el
    > desarrollo de su trabajo (máx. 200 palabras);

4.  un CV, que incluya una breve reseña biográfica; una lista de
    > exhibiciones, publicaciones u otras formas de presentación de
    > trabajos recientes; y el sitio web del artista y las cuentas de
    > redes sociales públicas relevantes, si corresponde (máx. 2
    > páginas);

5.  un portafolio que presente una muestra del trabajo reciente del
    > artista: imágenes o texto, o enlaces a muestras equivalentes del
    > trabajo del artista en línea (incluyendo hasta 10 imágenes fijas
    > con leyendas descriptivas o hasta 5 videos cortos o trabajo
    > sonoro). **¿Buscas inspiración? Explora el trabajo de nuestra
    > artista-residente inaugural, [Marinna
    > Shareef](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=grnqMlgcYHk).**

NB: el paquete de solicitud del artista debe guardarse como PDF, y los
cinco elementos enumerados anteriormente deben estar contenidos en un
solo archivo. No adjunte múltiples archivos ni utilice otros formatos
que no sean PDF.

**La fecha límite de solicitud es el 15 de abril de 2023 a las 11:59 pm
(EST). No se aceptarán solicitudes entregadas después de esta fecha.**

Los solicitantes deben cumplir con los requisitos de elegibilidad para
solicitar una visa B-1 de no inmigrante. Si es necesario, el artista
seleccionado debe solicitar una visa B-1 siguiendo los pasos enumerados
en
[travel.state.gov](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel.html)
antes del 1 de junio de 2023 y recibirá hasta \$250 como reembolso por
su solicitud de visa B-1 junto con una carta de invitación en apoyo de su solicitud de visa.

Un jurado que incluye miembros del colectivo Alice Yard y TCD, evaluará
las solicitudes. El artista ganador se anunciará a finales de abril de
2023 y la residencia se extenderá del 15 de junio al 15 de diciembre de
2023. El ganador presentará el trabajo realizado durante la residencia
en la conferencia anual del TCD en diciembre de 2023. El artista
conservará la propiedad y derechos de autor de su trabajo, pero deben
otorgar al TCD derechos no exclusivos para presentar y archivar el
trabajo en su sitio web y en otros medios.

Para cualquier consulta sobre elegibilidad requisitos de residencia o el
proceso de solicitud, comuníquese con los administradores de residencia
en
[thecaribbeandigital@gmail.com](mailto:thecaribbeandigital@gmail.com)

<p class="aligncenter"><a href="https://forms.gle/PZMTJ6Pm3pAMZ7Zc9" target="_blank"><button>Formulario de aplicación</button></a></p>

<br>
<hr>
<br>

## T&T artist selected for first TCD digital residency

<small>July 13, 2022</small>

**Marinna Shareef of Trinidad and Tobago has been selected for The
Caribbean Digital's inaugural Virtual Artist's Residency.**

Launched in early 2022, and expected to run annually for four years, the
virtual residency programme is aimed at artists of the Caribbean and its
diasporas who work in digital media. It offers a cash stipend of
US\$5,000 to support six months of part-time research and creative work,
structured mentorship by artist and Alice Yard co-director Christopher
Cozier, and a final presentation of the artist's work at The Caribbean
Digital's conference, hosted in November this year by the University of
Puerto Rico.

Shareef --- an early-career artist who graduated in 2019 with a BA in
visual art from the University of the West Indies, St. Augustine ---
will also benefit from a series of virtual studio visits by professional
curators or critics, and the commissioning and online publication of an
essay documenting her work during the residency.

The Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist's Residency is hosted by The
Caribbean Digital (TCD) in partnership with Alice Yard, and is sponsored
by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.

This residency is intended to support the development of "born-digital"
creative work primarily based in digital media and tools, and encourage
collaboration and cross-fertilisation between artistic practice and
Caribbean Digital Humanities.

"Since the launch of TCD in 2014, we've deliberately incorporated the
work of visual artists from the Caribbean and its diaspora each year,"
says TCD co-founder Professor Kelly Baker Josephs. "Creative arts offer
a form of knowledge production that takes up the same concerns academics
engage with, offering alternative modes of expression to audiences that
extend beyond the academy. We hope the residency may offer a model for
how other scholarly projects can engage with artistic practitioners as
co-creators of knowledge."

"'Digital art' is a form of practice whose boundaries are constantly
shifting," says Alice Yard co-director Nicholas Laughlin. "We received
thirty-six applications for this inaugural residency, and the range of
forms and technologies proposed by the artists was fascinating.
Selecting just one of them was not easy, but we're happy that the 2022
resident is an artist early in her career who we believe will truly
benefit from the opportunity, and whose practice brings together
elements of the virtual and the physical. We're excited to experience
and share the work that will come out of this residency."

The Caribbean Digital conference (TCD) is an international event hosted
annually at locations in the United States and the Caribbean since 2014.
Alternating between larger conferences and smaller symposia, TCD has
created a singular and consistent space of exchange for Caribbeanist
digital scholars, consisting of traditional panels, roundtable
conversations, skills-building workshops, and project show-and-tells.

Alice Yard is a contemporary art collective based at Granderson Lab in
Belmont, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. Founded in 2006, Alice Yard
curates and hosts artists' projects and residencies, with the support of
an international network of collaborators.

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/shareef.jpg" alt="Art by Marina Shareef depicting a face shooting red curtains out of its eyes" width="100%"/>
<small><em>Eye-dentity Theft</em> (2019) by Marinna Shareef</small>